# Fintech Case Study: Open Insurance [Logo](./Open_Logo.JPG)
## Overview and Origin
* Open Insurance ([www.beopen.com](https://www.beopen.com)) is a fintech company based in Australia and New Zealand,
* The company was formed in 2016.
* Its founders were Jason Wilby and Jonathan Buck who were British expats.
* The business was founded with the aim of challenging traditional financial services in Australia by offering a transparent and technology-driven model for consumers. Early products were based on the concept of peer economy aimed at reducing the cost of financial products such as loans and insurance.
* Open Insurance is a privately held company. It successfully raised $6 million in seed funding from investors initially in 2016. One of its investors is Hollard Insurance Group who also is acting as underwriter to its products. Over the next several years, Open Insurance managed to raise additional capital, in excess of $50 million, in a series of funding rounds led by VC firms, Airtree Ventures and Movac.
* As it is currently a private company, it's financial performance is not disclosed in the public domain. Even though the business is yet to attain unicorn status, one of its shareholders, Airtree Ventures, estimated the business to be worth more than $100 million recently.
## Business Activities:
* Open Insurance aims to disrupt the anachronistic and least digitally matured insurance industry by digitising insurance products and services, providing its customers access to the fatest insurance at the best possible price. 
* The business is achieving its mission by leveraging API connection and artificial intelligence to collect and analyse customer data that in turn will facilitate the efficient development of tailored insurance products that are then offerred to targeted customers at very competitive prices. According to one of the co-founders, Mr Wilby, Open Insurance's algorithms can detect patterns in customers’ buying and claiming behaviour, and also use shared industry claims data in a systematic way that legacy systems cannot, to reduce fraudulent claims and improve the experience for honest claimants by paying them within seconds.  
* According to IBISWorld, the General Insurance market in Australia is estimated to be worth around $70 billion in 2022 and is expected to continue to grow to nearly $100 billion by 2025.
* Open Insurance markets its digital insurance products to companies including insurers that embed them in their own digital experience as bespoke white-label insurance products, allowing their own customers to access fast insurance that is not only easy to buy and manage but also saves them money. Open Insurance's current network of partners includes prominent companies such as ahm, Telstra, EnergyAustralia and Plenti. Besides working with network partners, Open Insurance also markets its products through their own brand, [Huddle Insurance](https://www.huddle.com.au).
* Among other fintech companies that are competing in the same space are [Cover Genius](https://www.covergenius.com/), [Kanopi](https://www.kanopicover.com/) and [AP Intego](https://apintego.com/). Like Open Insurance, Kanopi also delivers embedded insurance that enables insurers and platform partners to work together to offer products that protect their customers based on their needs. The Melbourne-based company managed to raise some capital last year through Hollard Insurance Group, the same company that provided seed funding to Open Insurance. It was preparing to expand its product offerrings and launch into the US market following the capital raise. AP Intego, a US-based business, was founded with the singular idea of uncomplicating business insurance for small business owners. It's approach is no different - to apply tech innovation to the traditional insurance agency experience to deliver amazing customer service. On the other hand, Cover Genius was born out of the need to provide insurance cover for overseas customers of a local online travel business. The lack of global coordination in solution and platform is the reason for the business to thrive.
What sets Open Insurance apart is that they offer a an Open Sandbox environment with detailed steo-by-step guide complete with programming codes on their [webpage](https://developers.beopen.com/docs) to help its partners to quickly develop and test their app for business process and system integration. Essentially, it is plug-and-play model where partners can choose to either become an affiliate by referring their customers to Huddle Insurance directly to get a quote or become a distributor where Huddle is embeded on their website and integrated with their business process. 

## Landscape:
* The nascent InsurTech domain has attracted a lot of interests from serious investors within the insurance and banking and finance sectors. 
* Traditionally, the banking and finance industry is heavily regulated. They come with multiple layers of legal ramifications that tend to discourage the incumbents from working with start-ups like Open Insurance. However, with the growing interest that these start-ups managed to garner from consumers who clearly prefer user-friendly, time-efficient and cost effective products, the incumbents can no longer afford to continue to shy away from engaging and working together with these new start-ups and some may even consider acquiring the start-up as its business matures down the track.
* Fintech Australia, a lobby group made up of players within the industry, was formed in 2016 to represent and advocate for the Australian fintech industry. It works closely with government and industry to develop new approach to accelerate innovation in the financial sector and drive consumer and business demand for fintech while ensuring that the security and stability of the financial system remains intact.  
* As the leading voice of the industry, Fintech Australia had successfully lobbied the government to introduce a legislative framework for an enchanced regulatory sandbox that enables fintech companies to test their financial products and services with their customers without needing to go through too many redtapes. The original scope of the sandbox set by ASIC initially was considered too narrow as it had excluded mnarketplace lenders and fintechs such as Open Insurance working in the areas of superannuation and life insurance. Fintech Australia responded by establishing a working group of relevant members from the finance and insurance industry to develop a policy framework and a set of recommendations that were ultimately adopted by the regulatory body.

a not-for-profit Industry advocate and ASIC
   still What domain of the financial industry is the company in?
* What have been the major trends and innovations of this domain over the last 5-10 years?
* What are the other major companies in this domain?
## Results
* What has been the business impact of this company so far?
* What are some of the core metrics that companies in this domain use to measure success?
How is your company performing, based on these metrics?
* How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same domain?
## Recommendations
* As the digital adoption rate within the insurance industry gradually increases, the prospect for Open Insurance to carve a niche in this fast changing marketplace will be greatly enhanced.   that is already affecting some fundamental changes to the industry landscape will be greatly enhanced. In this era of digital economy driven by big data analysis, Open Insurance is well positioned to leverage new technology to add value to the design and delivery of innovative insurance solutions that will ultimately drive customer savings and improve overall satisfaction.
* Offering pay per use insurance based on individual habits and lifestyle choices can be a very attractive proposition to consumers who want to remain autonomous over what and how much they would like to spend. As majority of the insurance policies are normally set for a fixed period, typically a year, for renewal, it will certainly be a game changer if consumers can obtain cover for shorter periods, on a need-to basis instead of being retricted to purchasing cover for a set period. 
* For instance, one can choose to purchase a personal accident cover for a 3-day camping trip to the bush or extend insurance cover for home contents when going away for a short holiday. Such flexibility will almost certainly help remove initial objections and cause the consumer to be more willing to take up an insurance cover instead of choosing to self-insure because of the lack of cost effective solutions previously. Additionally, consumers like to be recognised and rewarded for their personal choices. Someone who drives once a week should be paying a lower premium as compared to someone who is behind the wheel nearly everyday of the week. One who exercises regularly should contribute a lower private healthcare premium as compared to someone who leads a sedentary lifestyle, for example. By the same token, one who plays extreme sport or work in a hazardous environment should pay more for insurance than someone who plays it safe in life and has a deskbound job.
* With today's technology, it has become possible to track people's movements and travel speeds via satellites using GPS technology. Additionally, an individual's stress level can also be tracked by the intermittent monitoring of heart rate and blood pressure readings captured via a smartwatch worn on the wrist. In a real-life example, NRMA has adopted a technology that rewards safe drivers when they voluntarily downloaded an app that automatically puts their phone on flight mode each time they are driving to reduce possible distractions, gets to pay a discounted premium. 
* Information gathered from these devices can then be automatically collated and transmitted over the internet to a central database for realtime analysis and depending on the outcomes, premiums will be adjusted accordingly on an individual level as opposed to the conventional pool concept that the insurance industry has been operating in for so long.
* Further, AI and Machine Learning can be deployed on the massive trove of data gathered and stored over time by Open Insurance from various internal and external sources including data shared by its existing partner network to run business modelling and accurately predict future trends. Only by harnessing the power of computing will it be possible to analyse the massive load of information derived daily in an efficient, timely and accurate manner  to help shape business decisions as well as aid the development of new products and solutions that meet the constantly evolving needs of consumers.
* For example, through analysing the web of data available, it is now possible for people with similar characteristics to be grouped under a peer insurance scheme that refunds a portion of premium paid if there have been no claims made by the end of the policy. This P2P innovation is reportedly the brainchild of Friendinsure, a German based fintech company that lists James Packer-backed Ellerston Capital as one of its shareholders. 

If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer?
(This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!)
* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?
* What technologies would this additional product or service utilize?
* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?